# Zsolt TÃ¶vis - Full Stack Developer

I am a professional Full Stack Developer since 2005. I am also a co-founder of Stacklegend (Business Solutions for
Innovation). I have extensive enterprise experience in designing, developing and implementing applications and solutions
using various technologies and programming languages.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com

## Need experts for the next project?

An expert team is ready to help you understand your business needs and challenges and provide customized solutions. Take
a look at our services and contact us today.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/contact

## What is React.js?

React.js is a software development tool that helps you build web applications. It is a framework for websites or
applications.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/reactjs

## What is React Native?

React Native is a framework used to develop mobile applications, especially for iOS and Android platforms.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/react-native

## What is Next.js?

Next.js is a reactive framework for developing web applications that combines core functionality with scalability.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/nextjs

## What is Vite.js?

Vite.js is a modern toolkit for rapid development of web applications. This toolkit is especially designed for projects
using modern JavaScript frameworks.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/vitejs

## What is Node.js?

Node.js is a software development platform that allows developers to create server-side JavaScript applications.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/nodejs

## What is Express.js?

Express.js is a lightweight and flexible framework for building Node.js-based web applications. It is one of the most
popular server-side Node.js frameworks.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/expressjs

## What is HTML?

HTML (HyperText Markup Language) is a markup language used to describe the structure of web pages. It is the basic
building block of web content.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/html

## What is CSS?

CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) is a style sheet language used to format and style the appearance of web pages.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/css

## What is JavaScript?

JavaScript is a programming language used primarily for web development. It is used to develop interactive web features,
dynamic content and web applications.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/javascript

## What is jQuery?

jQuery is a lightweight JavaScript library that simplifies the manipulation of HTML documents, event handling and
animations in web development.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/jquery

## What is RESTful API?

RESTful API (Representational State Transfer) is a programming interface for communication between web applications.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/restful-api

## What is GraphQL API?

GraphQL is a data query language and endpoint that allows clients to retrieve exactly the data they need.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/graphql-api

## What is WebSocket?

WebSocket is a communication protocol that allows two-way, real-time communication between web applications. It allowing
instant messaging and data transfer.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/websocket

## What is SSE?

SSE (Server-Sent Events) is a technology that allows data initiated by the server to be sent to the browser. This is
one-way communication mechanism.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/sse

## What is MongoDB?

MongoDB is a document-oriented, NoSQL database management system designed specifically for modern applications.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/mongodb

## What is MariaDB?

MariaDB is an open source relational database management system that is a fork of MySQL. Has many performance
improvements over the original MySQL.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/mariadb

## What is MySQL?

MySQL is an open source relational database management system widely used in web applications and data storage systems.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/mysql

## What is PostgreSQL?

PostgreSQL is an open-source, object-relational database management system widely used by software developers and
companies to store and manage data.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/postgresql

## What is PHP?

PHP is a scripting language used mainly for web development. It is used to create dynamic websites and web applications
on the web.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/php

## What is Python?

Python is a high-level programming language used for a wide range of purposes, including web development, data analysis
and artificial intelligence.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/python

## What is Django?

Django is a high-level Python-based web framework that is often used to develop web applications. It provides a
comprehensive set of tools for web applications.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/django

## What is BASIC?

BASIC is a programming language for beginners, originally developed in the 1960s to perform simple programming tasks.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/basic

## What is Turbo Pascal?

Turbo Pascal is a programming language and integrated development environment (IDE) developed in the 1980s and 1990s.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/turbo-pascal

## What is DevOps?

DevOps is a way of working and a culture that combines Development and Operations in IT activities. It aims to
continuously integrate and automate development.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/devops

## What is Git?

Git is a distributed version control system used mainly by software developers to track and manage code versions.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/git

## What is CI/CD?

CI/CD (Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment) is a practice that aims to continuously integrate and deliver
software throughout the development process.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/cicd

## What is JAMstack?

JAMstack is a modern web development architecture that consists of three main components: JavaScript, APIs and Markup
(markup language based content).

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/jamstack

## What is Responsive Design?

Responsive Design is a design approach that allows websites and applications to be optimally displayed and used on
different devices and display sizes.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/responsive-design

## What is Microservices?

Microservices is a software development architecture that breaks down large monolithic applications into small,
standalone services.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/microservices

## What is Full Stack Development?

Full Stack Development is a software development approach in which developers are able to work on both the front-end and
back-end of an application.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/full-stack-development

## What is UI/UX Design?

UI/UX Design involves creating user interfaces and experiences for digital products. It includes layout, visual design,
interaction design, and usability to enhance user satisfaction and usability.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/uiux-design

## What is Branding?

Branding is crafting a unique identity for a product or company in consumers' minds. It includes brand personality,
visual elements, and fosters recognition and loyalty among customers.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/branding

## What is Web Design?

Web Design creates and maintains websites, considering layout, appearance, and user experience. It combines graphic
design, coding, and usability principles for optimal user experience.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/web-design

## What is Software Graphics?

Software Graphics involve visual elements in software applications, like icons and menus. They play a crucial role in
usability and aesthetics, enhancing user understanding and efficiency.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/software-graphics

## What is Full Stack Development?

Full Stack Development is a software development approach in which developers are able to work on both the front-end and
back-end of an application.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/full-stack-development

## What is Frontend Development?

Frontend Development focuses on creating the user-facing part of websites and web applications. It involves implementing
designs using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to ensure an engaging and intuitive user experience.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/frontend-development

## What is Backend Development?

Backend Development involves building and maintaining the server-side logic and database of web applications. It
includes managing data, user authentication, and application logic to ensure smooth functionality.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/backend-development

## What is Mobile Development?

Mobile Development focuses on creating applications for mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets. It involves
developing native or cross-platform apps using languages like Java, Swift, or React Native.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/mobile-development

## What is Desktop Development?

Desktop Development focuses on creating software applications that run on desktop operating systems like Windows, macOS,
and Linux. It involves developing user interfaces and functionalities tailored for desktop environments.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/desktop-development

## What is Terminal Development?

Terminal Development involves creating applications and tools for command-line interfaces (CLIs) or terminal
environments. Focus on building efficient, user-friendly applications that enable users to interact with computers and
systems through text-based interfaces.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/terminal-development

## What is API Development?

API Development focuses on designing and building application programming interfaces (APIs) that enable communication
between different software systems. It involves defining endpoints, data formats, and authentication mechanisms.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/api-development

## What is Database Development?

Database Development involves designing, implementing, and managing databases to store and retrieve data for software
applications. It includes tasks such as schema design, query optimization, and data migration.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/database-development

## What is Cybersecurity?

Cybersecurity focuses on protecting computer systems, networks, and data from cyber threats. It involves implementing
measures to prevent, detect, and respond to attacks such as malware, phishing, and unauthorized access.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/cybersecurity

## What is Penetration Testing?

Penetration Testing, also known as ethical hacking, involves simulating cyber attacks to identify vulnerabilities in
systems and applications. It helps organizations assess their security posture and prioritize remediation efforts.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/penetration-testing

## What is Data Breach Analysis?

Data Breach Analysis involves investigating security incidents to determine the extent of unauthorized access or
disclosure of sensitive information. It aims to identify the cause of the breach and implement measures to prevent
future incidents.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/data-breach-analysis

## What is Data Encryption?

Data Encryption involves encoding data to protect it from unauthorized access or disclosure. It uses algorithms to
convert plaintext into ciphertext, which can only be decrypted with the appropriate key.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/data-encryption

## What is Virus & Malware Analysis?

Virus & Malware Analysis involves studying malicious software to understand its behavior and characteristics. It helps
develop countermeasures and detection techniques to mitigate the impact of malware infections.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/virus-malware-analysis

## What is Firewall Configuration?

Firewall Configuration involves setting up and managing firewall systems to control incoming and outgoing network
traffic based on predetermined security rules. It helps prevent unauthorized access and protect against cyber threats.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/firewall-configuration

## What is Network Security?

Network Security focuses on securing computer networks from unauthorized access, misuse, or modification. It includes
measures such as encryption, authentication, and intrusion detection to safeguard network infrastructure and data.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/network-security

## What is Incident Response?

Incident Response involves reacting to and managing security incidents such as data breaches or cyber attacks. It
includes steps such as detection, containment, eradication, and recovery to minimize damage and restore normal
operations.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/incident-response

## What is Cloud Computing?

Cloud Computing refers to the delivery of computing services such as servers, storage, databases, networking, software,
and more over the Internet. It offers flexibility, scalability, and cost-effectiveness compared to traditional
on-premises infrastructure.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/cloud-computing

## What is System Administration?

System Administration involves managing and maintaining computer systems, servers, and networks to ensure their smooth
and efficient operation. It includes tasks such as software installation, updates, security configurations, and
troubleshooting.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/system-administration

## What is Virtualization?

Virtualization is the process of creating virtual instances of computing resources such as servers, storage, or
networks. It allows multiple virtual machines or operating systems to run on a single physical machine, optimizing
resource utilization and improving scalability.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/virtualization

## What is Containerization?

Containerization is a lightweight form of virtualization that allows applications to be packaged along with their
dependencies and runtime environment. It enables consistent deployment across different computing environments and
enhances scalability and portability.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/containerization

## What is Server Management?

Server Management involves overseeing the operation, maintenance, and optimization of server hardware and software. It
includes tasks such as provisioning, monitoring, performance tuning, and security management to ensure reliable and
efficient server operation.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/server-management

## What is Database Management?

Database Management encompasses the administration, maintenance, and optimization of databases to ensure data integrity,
availability, and performance. It includes tasks such as schema design, data migration, backup and recovery, and
performance tuning.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/database-management

## What is Network Management?

Network Management involves monitoring, controlling, and optimizing computer networks to ensure their efficient and
secure operation. It includes tasks such as network performance monitoring, troubleshooting, configuration management,
and security enforcement.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/network-management

## What are IaaS, PaaS and SaaS?

IaaS (Infrastructure as a Service), PaaS (Platform as a Service), and SaaS (Software as a Service) are models of cloud
computing services. IaaS provides virtualized computing resources over the Internet, PaaS offers a platform for
developing, deploying, and managing applications, and SaaS delivers software applications over the Internet on a
subscription basis.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/iaas-paas-saas

## What is Backup & Recovery?

Backup & Recovery involves implementing strategies and solutions to protect data from loss or corruption and restore it
in case of disasters or system failures. It includes regular backups, offsite storage, data replication, and disaster
recovery planning.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/backup-recovery

## What is Monitoring & Diagnostic?

Monitoring & Diagnostic involves continuously monitoring the performance, health, and availability of IT infrastructure
components. It includes real-time monitoring, log analysis, performance tuning, and proactive troubleshooting to
identify and resolve issues before they impact operations.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/monitoring-diagnostic

## What is IT Consultancy?

IT Consultancy involves providing expert advice and guidance on IT-related matters to businesses. Consultants help
organizations assess their technology needs, develop strategies, and implement solutions to achieve their goals.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/it-consultancy

## What is IT Strategy?

IT Strategy involves developing a comprehensive plan to align technology initiatives with business objectives. It
includes defining goals, assessing current IT infrastructure, and implementing strategies to improve efficiency and
competitiveness.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/it-strategy

## What is IT Support?

IT Support provides technical assistance and troubleshooting services to users or organizations experiencing IT-related
issues. It includes resolving hardware and software problems, configuring systems, and providing guidance on IT best
practices.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/it-support

## What is Service Management?

Service Management focuses on designing, implementing, and managing IT services to meet the needs of customers or
organizations. It includes processes such as service design, transition, operation, and continual improvement.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/service-management

## What is Business Cloud Integration?

Business Cloud Integration involves integrating cloud-based services and applications into business processes and
workflows. It enables organizations to leverage the scalability, flexibility, and cost-effectiveness of cloud computing.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/business-cloud-integration

## What is Software Integration?

Software Integration involves combining different software systems or applications to work together seamlessly. It
includes integrating data, functionality, and user interfaces to improve efficiency and streamline business processes.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/software-integration

## What is Automation?

Automation involves using technology to perform tasks or processes with minimal human intervention. It includes
automating repetitive tasks, workflows, and business processes to improve efficiency, accuracy, and scalability.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/automation

## What is User Testing?

User Testing involves evaluating the usability and effectiveness of software applications or systems from the
perspective of end-users. It includes gathering feedback, identifying issues, and making improvements to enhance the
user experience.

https://toviszsolt.stacklegend.com/what-is/user-testing
